song-vocabulary/docs/mistral/example_requests.md, before:

# Example API Requests

This document contains example requests to the Japanese Song Vocabulary Generator API.

## Using curl

### Basic Request for "Idol" by YOASOBI

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Idol&artist=YOASOBI" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

### Other Popular Japanese Songs

#### "Lemon" by Kenshi Yonezu

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Lemon&artist=Kenshi%20Yonezu" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

#### "Gurenge" by LiSA (Demon Slayer Theme)

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Gurenge&artist=LiSA" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

#### "Shinzou wo Sasageyo" by Linked Horizon (Attack on Titan Theme)

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Shinzou%20wo%20Sasageyo&artist=Linked%20Horizon" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

## Using Python Requests

### Example Python Code

```python
import requests
import json

# API endpoint
url = "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator"

# Parameters
params = {
    "song": "Idol",
    "artist": "YOASOBI"
}

# Make the request
response = requests.get(url, params=params)

# Print the response
if response.status_code == 200:
    result = response.json()
    print(json.dumps(result, indent=2, ensure_ascii=False))
else:
    print(f"Error: {response.status_code}")
    print(response.text)
```

## Expected Response Format

A successful response will have this structure:

```json
{
  "vocabulary": [
    {
      "kanji": "アイドル",
      "romaji": "aidoru",
      "english": "idol"
    },
    {
      "kanji": "夢",
      "romaji": "yume",
      "english": "dream"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

If there's an error, the response will look like:

```json
{
  "error": "Error message here"
}
```

Commit message:

feat: Add support for English song vocabulary extraction
#11 This commit enhances the Song Vocabulary App to handle both Japanese and English songs:

- Fix extract_vocab.py to properly process both languages:
  - Japanese songs: Extract vocabulary directly from lyrics
  - English songs: Identify nouns, verbs, and adjectives and translate to Japanese
- Fix JSON serialization bug by updating field names (character → kanji)
- Update documentation across the project:
  - README.md: Add language handling details and English examples
  - ONBOARDING.md: Document dual-language support and response formats
  - Tech-Specs.md: Update agent tools section with language handling
  - Architecture docs: Detail language-specific processing
  - Example requests: Add English song examples

All tests pass for both Japanese and English songs, with consistent JSON output format.

song-vocabulary/docs/mistral/example_requests.md, after:

# Example API Requests

This document contains example requests to the Japanese Song Vocabulary Generator API. The API supports both Japanese and English songs, automatically detecting the language and processing accordingly.

## Using curl

### Basic Request for "Idol" by YOASOBI

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Idol&artist=YOASOBI" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

### Other Popular Japanese Songs

#### "Lemon" by Kenshi Yonezu

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Lemon&artist=Kenshi%20Yonezu" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

#### "Gurenge" by LiSA (Demon Slayer Theme)

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Gurenge&artist=LiSA" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

#### "Shinzou wo Sasageyo" by Linked Horizon (Attack on Titan Theme)

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Shinzou%20wo%20Sasageyo&artist=Linked%20Horizon" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

### English Songs (with Japanese Translation)

#### "Hello" by Adele

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Hello&artist=Adele" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

#### "Shape of You" by Ed Sheeran

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Shape%20of%20You&artist=Ed%20Sheeran" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

#### "Billie Jean" by Michael Jackson

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator?song=Billie%20Jean&artist=Michael%20Jackson" \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

## Using Python Requests

### Example Python Code

```python
import requests
import json

# API endpoint
url = "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/vocab-generator"

# Parameters
params = {
    "song": "Idol",
    "artist": "YOASOBI"
}

# Make the request
response = requests.get(url, params=params)

# Print the response
if response.status_code == 200:
    result = response.json()
    print(json.dumps(result, indent=2, ensure_ascii=False))
else:
    print(f"Error: {response.status_code}")
    print(response.text)
```

## Expected Response Format

A successful response will have this structure:

```json
{
  "vocabulary": [
    {
      "kanji": "アイドル",
      "romaji": "aidoru",
      "english": "idol"
    },
    {
      "kanji": "夢",
      "romaji": "yume",
      "english": "dream"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

If there's an error, the response will look like:

```json
{
  "error": "Error message here"
}
```
